README.md, before:

# Project-Team-3

#### Project Collaborators: [Shivam Waghela](https://github.com/shivamwaghela), [Mugdha Wadikar](https://github.com/Mugdha001), [Amruta Saraf](https://github.com/amsaraf), [Jai Chhatre](https://github.com/c-jai).


## Project Ideas for CMPE 272 - None of these ideas approved, submit more..

### New Topics:

### A. Scandal Prediction
### Problem Statement: 
The Enron scandal and collapse was one of the largest corporate meltdowns in history.
In the year 2000, Enron was one of the largest energy companies in America. Then, after being outed for fraud, it spiraled downward into bankruptcy within a year. Through the public dataset of Emails of Enron's employees, we can apply machine learning to detect or predict if there is some anomaly in any Enterprise or organization.

### Proposed Solution:
Anomaly detection : Map the distribution of emails sent and received by hour and try to detect abnormal behavior leading up to the public scandal.
Social network analysis: Build network graph models between employees to find key influencers.
Natural language processing: Analyze the body messages in conjunction with email metadata to classify emails based on their purposes.

Technology: IBM Watson, JanusGraph for graph database.

Datataset: http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~enron/

### B. SJSU Eventbrite Project
### Project Description:
The Eventbrite website is an excellent source to search for events of your choice. The SJSU Eventbrite project is based on similar lines. Currently, the Sammy App shows some information about generic events but does not give a holistic view based on students interests. Also, it is not department specific.
The proposed methodology for this project is: 
1. Understand the likes, dislikes, interests of students through their choices made on Sammy App.
2. Categorize events available in SJSU through Sammy App under different categories.
3. Enable students to add and host different events.
4. Create interest groups of students and suggest interests, friends and events based on their likes, dislikes.





### 1: SJSU Course Buddy (course assistant)

### Problem Statement:
Course selection in college. It is confusing since every professor designs the course content, assignments, and projects uniquely. The students sometimes end up taking courses that might not suit their interests or might not fit in well with other courses they want to take up. If they get access to some resources of previous semesters such as course content, assignment questions, and skill set needed for successful course completion, it would aid the students in selecting courses. 
### Proposed Solution:
SJSU Course Buddy is a chatbot designed to ease the process of course selection. It can analyze all the data and apply filters specified by users to come up with suggestions for a possible combination of courses. Currently, we do not have the data about course resources but if we get these resources through SJSU, then it would be a fun project to work on.


### 2: Munchy (chatbot to suggest recipes)

### Problem Statement:
Planning our daily meals is always a difficult task. Most of the times we have to plan them in advance and accordingly keep the necessary ingredients stocked up. But owing to our busy schedules, many times we might end up with no meal plans at all; and it is during such times that we have to make the best possible use of the available ingredients to come up with a dish. In such regularly occurring situations, it would be of immense help if a tool suggests recipes based on the currently available ingredients and also filters the suggested recipes according to the cuisines we liked.
### Proposed Solution:
Munchy is a chatbot designed to suggest recipes in response to users’ input about the ingredients they can use. It can also filter the suggested recipes as per the cuisine if asked by the user. The user can query Munchy using their natural language. Thus Munchy would serve as an assistant for suggesting meals and thus make the task of meal-planning less daunting.


### 3. A predictive model for customer churn

Customer churn occurs when customers or subscribers stop doing business with a company or service.
Businesses are very keen on measuring churn because keeping an existing customer is far less expensive than acquiring a new customer.
Churn rate, simply put, is calculated by dividing the number of customer cancellations within a time frame by the number of active customers at the start of that period. This overall churn rate can provide a benchmark against which we can measure the impact of a model. Knowing how churn rate varies by time of the week or month, product line, or customer cohort can help with identifying customer segments for targeting as well. 
However, churn is generally needed at more granular level. Customers vary in their behaviors and preferences, which in turn influence their satisfaction or desire to cancel service. Therefore, a cohort-based churn rate may not be enough for precise targeting or real-time risk prediction. This is where churn modeling is usually the most useful. 
The output of the predictive churn model will be a measure of the immediate or future risk of a customer canceling his/her subscription.  

### 4. Baymax for Academia - Student Companion ChatBot

Students are found to be overwhelmed by their hectic school schedule and face difficulties keeping up with time management. The Student Companion Chat Bot will act as a student's personal assistant. It will help students manage their class schedule, plan their homework, assignments, exams. The chatbot will regularly check student's progress by taking feedbacks. This app will not be limited to just managing student's academia but will also take other factors into account which can affect a student's academic performance like sleep time, extra-curricular activities. Alongside academic planning, it will provide suggestions to maintain mental and physical health based on the student's schedule. Students can interact with our lovely Baymax chatbot through text or by selecting one of the suggested answers. The app will constantly learn from user's preferences and feedbacks which will help in improving its future suggestions.

Commit message:

added new idea: munchy the nlp based meal planner

README.md, after:

# Project-Team-3

#### Project Collaborators: [Shivam Waghela](https://github.com/shivamwaghela), [Mugdha Wadikar](https://github.com/Mugdha001), [Amruta Saraf](https://github.com/amsaraf), [Jai Chhatre](https://github.com/c-jai).


## Project Ideas for CMPE 272 - None of these ideas approved, submit more..

### New Topics:

### A. Munchy, NLP based meal assistant
### Problem Statement:
Many times we forget to stock up necessary ingredients and have to come up with recipes containing only the currently available ingredients. Usually we opt to search for recipes on internet. It is difficult to search for the relevant recipes when we have to type names of all the ingredients that we want to use. Also once we come across recipe-cards, preparing a meal can be cumbersome if we kept pausing every now and then, to check for the next instruction in the recipe card.
### Proposed Solution:
Munchy(an android app with NLP implementation): it provides all the assistance needed for preparing a meal - right from suggesting recipes based on your available ingredients and cuisine preference to verbally guiding the user through each step of the recipe based on the available ingredients.
We can verbally inform munchy about available ingredients and desired cuisine, it will read aloud the names of top 3 recipes and also list them on the screen. Munchy would also inform us about the extra ingredients required. We can select any recipe either verbally or by clicking on the displayed names.  We can also ask munchy to read all the instructions of the recipe step by step. Every time we finish a step we can say "done" and then munchy would read aloud the next step. This would help us to prepare meals without the hassle of pausing to read the recipe-card every now and then.


### B. Scandal Prediction
### Problem Statement: 
The Enron scandal and collapse was one of the largest corporate meltdowns in history.
In the year 2000, Enron was one of the largest energy companies in America. Then, after being outed for fraud, it spiraled downward into bankruptcy within a year. Through the public dataset of Emails of Enron's employees, we can apply machine learning to detect or predict if there is some anomaly in any Enterprise or organization.

### Proposed Solution:
Anomaly detection : Map the distribution of emails sent and received by hour and try to detect abnormal behavior leading up to the public scandal.
Social network analysis: Build network graph models between employees to find key influencers.
Natural language processing: Analyze the body messages in conjunction with email metadata to classify emails based on their purposes.

Technology: IBM Watson, JanusGraph for graph database.

Datataset: http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~enron/

### C. SJSU Eventbrite Project
### Project Description:
The Eventbrite website is an excellent source to search for events of your choice. The SJSU Eventbrite project is based on similar lines. Currently, the Sammy App shows some information about generic events but does not give a holistic view based on students interests. Also, it is not department specific.
The proposed methodology for this project is: 
1. Understand the likes, dislikes, interests of students through their choices made on Sammy App.
2. Categorize events available in SJSU through Sammy App under different categories.
3. Enable students to add and host different events.
4. Create interest groups of students and suggest interests, friends and events based on their likes, dislikes.


### Previous topics


### 1: SJSU Course Buddy (course assistant)

### Problem Statement:
Course selection in college. It is confusing since every professor designs the course content, assignments, and projects uniquely. The students sometimes end up taking courses that might not suit their interests or might not fit in well with other courses they want to take up. If they get access to some resources of previous semesters such as course content, assignment questions, and skill set needed for successful course completion, it would aid the students in selecting courses. 
### Proposed Solution:
SJSU Course Buddy is a chatbot designed to ease the process of course selection. It can analyze all the data and apply filters specified by users to come up with suggestions for a possible combination of courses. Currently, we do not have the data about course resources but if we get these resources through SJSU, then it would be a fun project to work on.


### 2: Munchy (chatbot to suggest recipes)

### Problem Statement:
Planning our daily meals is always a difficult task. Most of the times we have to plan them in advance and accordingly keep the necessary ingredients stocked up. But owing to our busy schedules, many times we might end up with no meal plans at all; and it is during such times that we have to make the best possible use of the available ingredients to come up with a dish. In such regularly occurring situations, it would be of immense help if a tool suggests recipes based on the currently available ingredients and also filters the suggested recipes according to the cuisines we liked.
### Proposed Solution:
Munchy is a chatbot designed to suggest recipes in response to users’ input about the ingredients they can use. It can also filter the suggested recipes as per the cuisine if asked by the user. The user can query Munchy using their natural language. Thus Munchy would serve as an assistant for suggesting meals and thus make the task of meal-planning less daunting.


### 3. A predictive model for customer churn

Customer churn occurs when customers or subscribers stop doing business with a company or service.
Businesses are very keen on measuring churn because keeping an existing customer is far less expensive than acquiring a new customer.
Churn rate, simply put, is calculated by dividing the number of customer cancellations within a time frame by the number of active customers at the start of that period. This overall churn rate can provide a benchmark against which we can measure the impact of a model. Knowing how churn rate varies by time of the week or month, product line, or customer cohort can help with identifying customer segments for targeting as well. 
However, churn is generally needed at more granular level. Customers vary in their behaviors and preferences, which in turn influence their satisfaction or desire to cancel service. Therefore, a cohort-based churn rate may not be enough for precise targeting or real-time risk prediction. This is where churn modeling is usually the most useful. 
The output of the predictive churn model will be a measure of the immediate or future risk of a customer canceling his/her subscription.  

### 4. Baymax for Academia - Student Companion ChatBot

Students are found to be overwhelmed by their hectic school schedule and face difficulties keeping up with time management. The Student Companion Chat Bot will act as a student's personal assistant. It will help students manage their class schedule, plan their homework, assignments, exams. The chatbot will regularly check student's progress by taking feedbacks. This app will not be limited to just managing student's academia but will also take other factors into account which can affect a student's academic performance like sleep time, extra-curricular activities. Alongside academic planning, it will provide suggestions to maintain mental and physical health based on the student's schedule. Students can interact with our lovely Baymax chatbot through text or by selecting one of the suggested answers. The app will constantly learn from user's preferences and feedbacks which will help in improving its future suggestions.
